Hu-Go! Quickstart

[mail:zeograd@zeograd.com||Zeograd]

Table of Contents

Introduction
Keyboard mapping
    Games keys
    Special keys
Supported formats
Options
    Graphics
    Paths
    CD emulation
    Sound
    Netplay



 Introduction

This document briefly describes how to play pc engine 
games with Hu-Go!. More detailled explanations can be 
found in the other thematic document in the same 
directory as this one.

Hu-Go! can be launched without argument to start with a 
gtk interface in which you can change options and start 
roms and cds. You can also start it giving as argument 
the name of the .pce file to run.

 Keyboard mapping

 Games keys

By default, the keyboard is mapped like this :

up up arrow

down down arrow

left left arrow

right right arrow

II button Alt key

I button Space key

select Tab key

run Return key

auto II X key

auto I C key

 Special keys

Toggle fullscreen F9 key

Quit F12 key / ESC key

Save current game state F6 key

Load current game state F7 key

 Supported formats

You can use the "load rom" button to load rom as .pce 
files, or cd as .iso files. The "load cd" button is used 
to play real pc engine cds.

 Options

Options control how the game are rendered. They are 
stored in an .ini file which is generated from the gtk 
interface (prefered) or edited with a text editor. Most 
options can be overriden with command line options.

 Graphics

 Start games in fullsceen mode : When game are started, 
  they are in fullscreen mode.

 Maintain pce aspect ratio in fullscreen mode : When in 
  fullscreen mode, keep the same ratio for screen 
  dimention than the one of the original game, else use 
  the maximum available space even if it means that 
  proportions are messed.

 Emulate television size [Not yet implemented] : Drop 
  the rendering of lines outside the 224 lines of the 
  middle of the screen. When using games on tv, those 
  are generally outside the visible area.

 Window zoom factor : Zoom factor when in windowed mode.

 Prefered full screen size : Size of the fullscreen 
  mode. You can switch to it with F9 key.

 Hardware acceleration when available : Try to use the 
  super fast hardware rendering mode. It is not 
  available on older machines, and will simply use the 
  classical mode in this case.

 Hardware graphic format : Change this value to 
  something else than Autodetect if colors are screwed 
  when using the hardware acceleration.

 Paths

 CD system filename : Path to the cd system rom to be 
  used for launching cd or isos.

 Default rom directory : Directory in which to begin 
  browsing roms.

 CD emulation

 Soft bios emulation mode : Do not try to emulate cd 
  bios calls at high level, hence slowing the cd 
  emulation but raising the compatibility.

 CD path [Unused for windows] : Path to the cd rom 
  device, e.g. /dev/hdd.

 Enable arcade card mode [Still in progress] : Enable 
  arcade card emulation.

 Sound

 Use stereo sound : Enable stereo sound rendering.

 Output frequency : Frequency of sound rendering. If 
  your card doesn't support the given frequency, Hu-Go! 
  will pick the nearest supported one.

 Buffer size : Size of the buffer sound. You can double 
  or half it if the sound is choppy. 256, 512 or 1024 
  should fit most machines. It must be a power of 2.

 Netplay

 Netplay mode : "Local mode" disables netplay support 
  while "LAN netplay" enables it using the LAN protocol 
  and "INTERNET netplay" enabled it using the Internet protocol.

 Server hostname [Unused when in local mode] : Hostname 
  of the machine running the Hu-Go! netplay server. It 
  doesn't support ip for now.

 Server port [Unused when in local mode] : Port on 
  which the Hu-Go netplay server is listening.

 Slot X [Unused when in local mode] : Number of the 
  local input to export for netplay. "None" should be 
  used for the last entries. Typical configuration is "
  Slot 1 : Player 1" and remainings to "None"
